 EWL README
============
The Enlightened Widget Library (EWL) is a toolkit for creating graphical user 
interfaces based on the Enlightenment Foundation Libaries (EFL). The library
aims to eas the pain of creating graphical interfaces through the simplicity
and consistency of it's APIs.

EWL is still very much in a development state. We do, sometimes, break APIs
when we feel that something could be designed a bit better. We try to
minimize this breakable, but it does happen. If you see something you think
is inconsistent or have some APIs you think would be useful, please send us
an email (or, if possible a patch) and we'll gladly take a look.


 INSTALLING EWL
================
As was mentioned EWL depends on a few of the EFL libraries for its
functionality. These include:

  Evas
  Ecore
  Edje
  Epsilon (optional)
  Emotion (optional)

EWL has been setup to use, if available, the OpenGL, framebuffer or software
X11 support in Evas. You only require one of these engines to function but
can have all of them compiled in if desired. (NOTE, the framebuffer and
OpenGL engines have had a lot less testing then the software engine, so your
mileage may vary in their usage. About 90% of the code in the OpenGL engine
is shared with the software engine so it should be pretty stable.)

Once you have the pre-requisites installed you can the install EWL. This is
done with your standard set of procedures:

  ./autogen.sh    (if you've checked out from cvs)
  ./configure
  make
  make install	  (as root)

You can check that everything is working correctly by running:
 
  ewl_test

This is the main test application for EWL. It contains source code and
tutorials for the different widgets. (These tutorials are currently only
available for a few widgest, if you'd like to add some please send us
patches.) 


 PROGRAMMING EWL
=================
It would take too much space to explain all of the APIs and concepts behind
EWL, luckly there are other great resources for this purpose already. If
you have CVS checked up there is a e17/docs/ewlbook which is the main EWL
documentation. (This can also be found at:
http://enlightenment.sourceforge.net/docs/ewlbook.html or as a PDF: 
http://enlightenment.sourceforge.net/docs/ewlbook.pdf)

The system is also fully documented with Doxygen. You can generate these
docs by executing: 

  sh gendoc

in the main libs/ewl directory of CVS, or view the pre-generated docs online
at http://enlightenment.sourceforge.net/doxy/ewl/index.html.

There is also a quick introductory page on EWL available at: 
http://www.enlightenment.org/pages/ewl.html.

EWL also fully supports being embeded into an Evas application. So, if
you're writting an application in Evas/Edje and just require a simple text
entry, or some buttons, you can embed the EWL widgets into you're
application. Saves you the effort of writting them yourself. Examples of
this embedding can be see in the ewl/src/bin/ewl_embed_test.c file.


 EWL HELP
==========
If you've taken a look at this documentation and still have a few questions,
or just want to discuss some of the design decisions you can usually find
someone either on IRC (in #edevelop or #ewl) or on the main
enlightenment-devel mailing list available off of the Sourceforge project
page.


