e17genmenu
----------------------------------------------------------------------
e17genmenu is an application to automatically generate menu entries for
the Enlightenment Window Manager (DR17) based on freedesktop.org (fdo)
compatible menus as used by other window managers like Gnome and Kde. 
It is written in C, utilising the Enlightenment Foundation Libraries
including Ecore, Engrave, and Eet.

Currently it produces two sub menus in your "Favorite Applications"
menu, "Converted Menus", and "Generated Menus", while leaving your
original "Favorite Applications" menu items untouched.  The first one is
your systems fdo compliant menu converted to an E17 menu, the second one
is the result of the previous menu generation behaviour of e17genmenu. 
If you use the --fdo option, you only get the fdo conversions.


Note: 
----------------------------------------------------------------------
This version from Enlightenment e17 cvs is being rewritten and will more
than likely break often.  Please backup your ~/.e/e/applications
directory before using this version.  If your looking for a stable
version to generate menus for E17, then I'd suggest getting the 4.2.0
version from https://sourceforge.net/projects/e17genmenu/ .


Limitations:
----------------------------------------------------------------------
As this is still being rewritten, there are some limitations, mostly due
to the fact that not everything has been written yet.  These limitations
mostly apply to the fdo conversion.  These limitations will slowly go
away as we write more code.  As this is experimental code, heaps of
debugging output is likely to be generated.

E17 will be completely unresponsive for a few minutes after e17genmenu
finishes running.  This is due to a bad interaction with the eap caching
code when you generate a lot of eaps at once, like e17genmenu does. 
raster is aware of this problem, and has a fix on his TODO list.

It should find all of the applications that are normally in Gnome and
Kde menus.  It probably wont put them all in the correct place, or with
the correct icon.

The menu names and icons are not correctly set yet.  Menu and
application names are not localised.

Some applications are not being included due to some strangeness in the
way they define their icons.  This is currently under investigation.


Please help test this:
----------------------------------------------------------------------
The freedesktop.org standards are not really proper standards as such,
more a collection of current practise formulated into a guide for others
to implement.  So not everybody implements them the same way, and there
is legacy behaviour that might be different from the specs.  So
e17genmenu needs to be tested on as many different systems as possible. 
Firstly to see if we followed the specs well enough to work well,
secondly to see if others followed the specs well enough for e17genmenu
to work, and thirdly to figure out what needs to be done when some
random distro deviates enough from the specs that e17genmenu doesn't
work as planned.

Please help us test e17genmenu.

Backup your ~/.e/e/applications directory first.

Run e17genmenu, the adventurous can try running e17genmenu -o. 

Send an email to onefang (email address in e17/apps/e_utils/AUTHORS) and
tell me what distro of what OS you tried it in, the speed and type of
your CPU, details of any applications you think it should have included
in "Generated Menus" but didn't, and the last line output by e17genmenu
(the timing statistics).  If you can, try to track down the .desktop
files that match the missing apps and tell me what directory they are
in.  Don't send me the entire output of e17genmenu, or the files
themselves unless I specifically request it.

That is worth repeating.

DO NOT send me any .desktop files, .menu files, e17genmenu output, or
anything else that is large UNLESS I specifically ask you to.  Bandwidth
is very expensive here in Australia.
